# [Introduction to RNA-seq data analysis](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fRKwj8igQ0U&list=PLjiXAZO27elABzLA0aHKS9chVA2TldoPF&index=2&t=1s)

* Batch Effects:

    Batch effects are technical sources of variation that have been added to the samples during handling. For example if you have too many samples to label them all at the same time you will have to split the job into managable rounds of labelling. The samples labelled at the same time will get the same amount of technical variance added to them, but samples labelled at different times may have different amounts of variance added to them.

* Isoform:

    any of two or more functionally similar proteins that have a similar but not identical amino acid sequence and are either encoded by different genes or by RNA transcripts from the same gene which have had different exons removed

* Isoform Switching:

    A switch is defined as a case where the relative contribution of the isoforms to the parent gene expression changes significantly between conditions

* Transcripts - mRNA, rRNA & tRNA
* Transcriptome - the sum total of all the messenger RNA molecules expressed from the genes of an organism.

* Allele:

    An allele is a variant form of a gene. Some genes have a variety of different forms, which are located at the same position, or genetic locus, on a chromosome. Humans are called diploid organisms because they have two alleles at each genetic locus, with one allele inherited from each parent.

    Allele Specific Variation can profoundly alter an individual's phenotype

* Bulk RNA Seq:
    bulk RNA-seq analysis analyze the expression of RNAs from large populations of cells

* Single Cell RNA Seq: (?)

* Bulk RNA-seq is typically used to assess changes due to experimental conditions, whereas scRNA-seq is more frequently used to assess differences between cell types


* We start with PolyA RNA because with we don't want to sequense Ribosomal RNA (microRNA, snRNA doesn't have PolyA, mRNA does)


* Single-end vs. paired-end Sequencing:
    
    In single-end reading, the sequencer reads a fragment from only one end to the other, generating the sequence of base pairs. In paired-end reading it starts at one read, finishes this direction at the specified read length, and then starts another round of reading from the opposite end of the fragment. Paired-end reading improves the ability to identify the relative positions of various reads in the genome, making it much more effective than single-end reading in resolving structural rearrangements such as gene insertions, deletions, or inversions. It can also improve the assembly of repetitive regions. This degree of accuracy may not be required for all experiments, however, and paired-end reads are more expensive and time-consuming to perform than single-end reads.

* Stranded RNA Seq Data allows to resolve the question of wheather the Read originated from forward or reverse strand. (?)