# [RNA-seq course: Alignment level quality control](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SGO752Hkt7Y&list=PLjiXAZO27elABzLA0aHKS9chVA2TldoPF&index=6)

* Annotation based quality metrics
    * Saturation of sequencing depth (are more matches possible?)
    * Read distribution between different genomic features
        1. A given genomic feature may be comprised of multiple specific genomic locations that together form the genomic feature.
        2. **Exonic, intronic & Intergenic** 

            An Intergenic region is a stretch of DNA sequences located between genes. Intergenic regions are a subset of noncoding DNA.

            **coding, 3` and 5` UTR exons**

            The 5′ untranslated region (5′ UTR) (also known as a leader sequence or leader RNA) is the region of an mRNA that is directly upstream from the initiation codon. This region is important for the regulation of translation of a transcript by differing mechanisms in viruses, prokaryotes and eukaryotes.


            **Protien coding genes, pseudogenes, rRNA, miRNA etc**


        3. Is Read Coverage uniform along transcript?

            Biases introduced while library construction & sequencing (?? Biases Detailed Explanation)

            A primer is a short nucleic acid sequence that provides a starting point for DNA synthesis. In living organisms, primers are short strands of RNA


* Softwares: RseQC

    1. Checks coverage uniformity (Uniform reads except at ends due to bias)
    2. Saturation of sequencing depth (Increased number of reads will mean a greater probabilty of finding a novel junction)
    3. splicing junctions: known, partially novel(one end known), complete novel(Both ends are unknown)
    4. Input file are of BAM and BED format

* BAM is Binary version of SAM (Sequence Alignment Map)
*  the BED file format accepted by Genomatix. BED files are tab-delimited files with one line for each genomic region. (ID, Score, Strand, 9 optional)

* For some number of reads you can have multiple number of alignments (TAGs more than READs)
* Non-primary hits - secondary reads (have multiple equally good alignments, Uniqueness failed)